Document Package Verification Test (#2321)
Particular/ServiceControl: docs/packaging.md

# Packaging

> Each product is packaged into it's own versioned zip file in the `./zip` folder, and these are included in the installation package. When ServiceControl Management installs a new instance, it uses the files in these zips. Each zip contain two top-level folders

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each product (ServiceControl, ServiceControl.Monitoring and ServiceControl.Audit),  is packaged into its own versioned zip file in the `./zip` folder. These zip files are included in the installation package. When ServiceControl Management installs a new instance, it uses the files in these zips. Each zip contain two top-level folders
```

- `/Transports` contains a folder for each supported transport
- `/<product>` contains the instance files specific to the type of instance
  - `/ServiceControl`
  - `/ServiceControl.Audit`
  - `/ServiceControl.Monitoring`
  

>  When SCMU installs a product it unzips the main instance files, and the transport files into the same folder

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When ServiceControl Management Utility (SCMU) installs a product, it unzips the main instance files and the transport files into the same folder.
```

## Assembly Mismatches

There can be an issue when the main instance folder and the selected transport each have a copy of the same assembly. This can happen when the transport package and the instance each reference the same dependency, but select different versions. At install time, one version or the other will be copied into the instance binary folder and things may break unexpectedly at runtime.

> To prevent this, there is a unit test (`DeploymentPackageTests.DuplicatAssemblyFileSizesShouldMatch` that tests the generate zip files to look for duplicated assemblies. If their file sizes match, then the test passes. If the file sizes do not match, then the test will fail with a message like the following.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To prevent this, the unit test `DeploymentPackageTests.DuplicatAssemblyFileSizesShouldMatch` tests the generated zip files for duplicated assemblies. If their file sizes match, then the test passes. If the file sizes do not match, then the test will fail with a message:
```

```
  File sizes should match the ones in the ServiceControl.Audit folder. Check versions of dependencies.
  Expected: <empty>
  But was:  < "Transports/AzureStorageQueue/System.Runtime.CompilerServices.Unsafe.dll", "Transports/AzureStorageQueue/System.Threading.Tasks.Extensions.dll" >

   at Tests.DeploymentPackageTests.DuplicateAssemblyFileSizesShouldMatch() in /_/src/ServiceControlInstaller.Packaging.UnitTests/DeploymentPackageTests.cs:line 19
```

> File sizes should match the ones in the **ServiceControl.Audit** folder. Check versions of dependencies.

This is telling you that the mismatch is happing in the ServiceControl.Audit zip.

> But was:  < "Transports/AzureStorageQueue/System.Runtime.CompilerServices.Unsafe.dll", "Transports/AzureStorageQueue/System.Threading.Tasks.Extensions.dll" >

This is telling you the assemblies that are different from the ones found in the ServiceControl.Audit folder.

### How to resolve

When a mismatch occurs, we need to make sure that the versions of the dependencies match between the transport package and the ServiceControl package. 

There are two mechanisms for doing that:

> 1. Add an explicit version of the package as a dependency on the transport package that matches the version being used by ServiceControl. This is the preferred option, as Dependabot will pick up when a new version of the dependency has been released and raise a PR for us to test and review.

Reviewer: While this might be the case for explicitly referenced packages in two different sources, it doesn't appear to be the case for these two assemblies. Therefore it looks like another edge case. Both, `System.Runtime.CompilerServices.Unsafe.dll` and `System.Threading.Tasks.Extensions.dll` are used by neither the transport project (ServiceControl.Transports.ASQ nor ServiceControl project.

Author: So it's a transitive dependency for something else? If there is a NuGet package you can add it in as a direct dependency to lock the version in.

Reviewer: I've tried to find what pulls it in and had a hard time.
It feels a bit hacky to just a package to lock the version rather than know what package brings that transitive dependency in.

Reviewer: I've [consolidated both transitive dependencies](https://github.com/Particular/ServiceControl/pull/2301/commits/2efe00b2c7fe018f1b2dc3171e4f18524a651880) into a shared build.props file to manage in one spot.
